>> Woodruff: CONFRONTING
EXTREMISM-- HOW TO STOP ACTS OF
TERROR AND VIOLENCE.
WE TALK TO THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
OF THE UNITED NATIONS BAN KI-
MOON.
>> WE HAVE TO ADDRESS TERRORISM
AND BIOTERRORISM IN A
MULTI-DIMENSIONAL WAY, STARTING
FROM THE ROOT CAUSES.
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING, I'M
JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY.
FROM RANSOM TO OIL RICHES, THE
ECONOMICS OF TERRORISM
>> ISIS IS RUNNING LOCAL WAR
ECONOMY, AND IN SOME WS, IAYS A
FOR-PROFIT TERRORIST AND
MILITANT GROUP.
KIDNAP FOR RANSOM HAS REALLY
BECOME AN INDUSTRY IN SOME CASES
AND SO IN MANY WAYS ITS LESS
ABOUT TERRORISM AND MORE ABOUT
COMMERCE AND PROFIT.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, WE TALK WITH
THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, SYLVIA BURWELL,
ON THE LATEST HEALTH INSURANCE
ENROLLMENT NUMBERS AND LOOMING
LEGAL THREATS THAT COULD
ELIMINATE SUBSIDIES FOR MILLIONS
OF AMERICANS.
>> WHEN THAT GOES AWAY, YOU LOSE
AFFORDABILITY.
AND WHEN YOU LOSE AFFORDABILITY,
WE INCREASE THE NUMBER OF
UNINSURED.
>> Ifill: AND, GIRLS SOLD INTO
SLAVERY BY ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS ESCAPE THEIR CAPTORS
BUT NOT THEIR SHAME.
THE RETURN HOME AND THE WEIGHT
OF THE TRAUMA THEY CARRY.
>> AS MANY AS 400 YAZIDI WOMEN
AND GIRLS ARE NOW FREE AND
LIVING IN CAMPS LIKE THIS ONE,
BUT THEIR NIGHTMARE IS NOT OVER.
>> MOST OF THEM HAVE BEEN RAPED
REPEATEDLY, AND IN A CULTURE
WHERE A WOMAN'S VIRGINITY IS HER
BADGE OF HONOR, NO ONE WANTS TO
TALK ABOUT IT
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: AN ARCTIC BLAST
FORECASTERS HAVE DUBBED THE
"SIBERIAN EXPRESS" DIPPED ALL
THE WAY TO FLORIDA'S GULF COAST
TODAY, DEMOLISHING COLD
TEMPERATURE RECORDS ALONG THE
WAY.
FROM THE MIDWEST, TO THE DEEP
SOUTH, THE ARCTIC BLAST BROUGHT
DANGEROUS, RECORD-BREAKING COLD
TO MUCH OF THE U.S. TODAY.
27 STATES ARE NOW UNDER WIND
CHILL WARNINGS OR ADVISORIES,
MORE THAN 100 MILLION AMERICANS
SHIVERING IN A DEEP FREEZE.
IN CHICAGO, THE WIND CHILL
DIPPED TO ABOUT 30 DEGREES BELOW
ZERO.
THE FRIGID TEMPERATURES LED TO
TRANSPORTATION DELAYS, AND
SCHOOL CANCELLATIONS.
BUT THERE WAS NO SUCH LUCK FOR
GABE WOLTER, IN OAK PARK,
ILLINOIS, ON HIS WAY TO HIS
FOURTH GRADE CLASSROOM
>> I PUT ON MY SKI GOGGLES AND
MY SCARF JUST SO NO WIND COULD
GET TO MY FACE.
>> AND ARE YOU FEELING PRETTY
GOOD RIGHT NOW?
>> YEP.
>> Ifill: NORTH OF BOSTON, AN
AREA ALREADY HAMMERED BY WINTER,
CREWS FOUGHT BLOWING SNOW TO
RESCUE A DOG THAT HAD FALLEN
THROUGH THE ICE.
IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL, SOME
BRAVED THE COLD TO SEE THE
MONUMENTS, OR EVEN GO FOR A
MONUMENTS, OR EVEN GO FOR A RUN.
>> IT'S BEEN COLD ENOUGH THAT MY
IPHONE'S STOPPED WORKING.
IT'S GIVING ME A MESSAGE THAT
SAYS IT'S TOO COLD TO OPERATE IN
THIS TEMPERATURE.
SO IT MUST BE PRETTY COLD.
>> Ifill: ELSEWHERE, LARGE
SWATHS OF THE GREAT LAKES ARE
NOW ICED-OVER.
THE SECOND SMALLEST, LAKE ERIE,
MORE THAN 90% FROZEN.
AND PARTS OF THE FAMED NIAGARA
FALLS: A FROZEN CASCADE, NOW.
MEANTIME, THE NATIONAL WEATHER
SERVICE PREDICTS EVEN COLDER
TEMPERATURES ARE ON THE WAY.
DESPITE THE COLD COVERING MUCH
OF THE U.S., THE FIRST MONTH OF
THE YEAR TURNED OUT TO BE THE
SECOND-WARMEST JANUARY ON RECORD
AROUND THE WORLD.
THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION
RELEASED THAT DATA TODAY.
CALFORNIA IS HAVING ITS WARMEST
AND DRIEST WINTER ON RECORD.
>> Woodruff: A SUPERBUG OUTBREAK
HAS INFECTED AT LEAST SEVEN
PATIENTS AT A LOS ANGELES
HOSPITAL, TWO OF WHOM DIED.
MORE THAN 170 OTHERS MAY HAVE
BEEN EXPOSED.
THE INCIDENTS OCCURRED AT RONALD
REAGAN U.C.L.A. MEDICAL CENTER
BETWEEN OCTOBER AND JANUARY.
THE BACTERIA IS RESISTANT TO
MOST ANTIBIOTICS, AND CAN
TRIGGER BLADDER OR LUNG
INFECTIONS.
HOSPITAL OFFICIALS SUSPECT
CONTAMINATED MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS
WERE TO BLAME.
>> Ifill: HUNDREDS OF PRODUCTS
ARE BEING PULLED OFF GROCERY
SHELVES AFTER TRACES OF PEANUT
WERE FOUND IN CUMIN SPICE.
THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
WARNED ANYONE WITH PEANUT
ALLERGIES TO STAY AWAY FROM
FOODS THAT USE CUMIN OR CUMIN
POWDER.
IT'S COMMONLY FOUND IN TACO
SEASONING AND CHILI POWDER.
RECALLS OF PRODUCTS HAVE PICKED
UP STEAM SINCE DECEMBER, AS MORE
FOODS CONTAINING CUMIN ARE
DISCOVERED.
>> Woodruff: THE VALIDITY OF A
TRUCE IN UKRAINE KEPT ON
CRUMBLING TODAY AS SHELLING AND
FIGHTING BETWEEN GOVERNMENT
FORCES AND RUSSIAN-BACKED
SEPARATISTS SPREAD.
ALEX THOMSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS FILED THIS
REPORT FROM DEBALTSEVE.
THE WAR HAS COME BACK.
THE POUNDING BEGAN AROUND
7:00 A.M. AND HASN'T STOPPED
SINCE.
UKRAINIAN ARTILLERY.
>> IT'S OBVIOUSLY PEACE HASN'T
COME.
THE EXPLOSIONS PROVE THE DEAL'S
BEEN BREACHED.
I DON'T KNOW WHO I CAN LOOK TO
FOR HOPE WHEN THE TOP-LEVEL
AGREEMENTS HAVE FAILED.
>> UNQUESTIONABLY, IT IS THE
MOST INTENSE BOMBARDMENT IN THIS
REGION OF THE CAPITAL CITY SINCE
SATURDAY'S SO-CALLED CEASE FIRE.
FIGHTING AROUND DONETSK, AROUND
THE SOUTHERN CITY OF MAR APOLL
AND IN DEBALTSEVE.
IN DEBALTSEVE, THE REBELS MAKE
THEIR FEELINGS PLAIN ABOUT THE
UKRAINIAN FLAG.
ACROSS THE LINES, UKRAINIANS
EMBRACING, GLAD TO BE OUT OF THE
HELL THAT WAS DEBALTSEVE FOR
THEM.
>> THEY WERE SHELLING ALMOST THE
ENTIRE TOWN, STARTING AT NIGHT
THEY WOULD FIRE AT US JUST TO
STOP US FROM SLEEPING.
>> SIGNIFICANTLY, UKRAINIAN
SOLDIERS WHO SURVIVED DEBALTSEVE
ARE OPENLY CRITICAL OF THEIR
COMMANDERS.
>> THE PLAN WITHDRAWAL, THAT'S
RIDICULOUS, NONSENSE, PLANNED.
AS USUAL, THEY SCREWED UP.
>> REBELS CONTROL THE CITY BUT
AROUND RUBBLE OF HEAVY SHELLING
THIS MORNING.
UKRAINE'S CALLING FOR THE U.N.
TO COME IN BUT WILL THEY GET
FURTHER THAN THE EUROPEAN
MONITORS SO OFTEN STOPPED BY
BOTH SIDES FROM DOING THEIR JOB.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIA'S AMBASSADOR
TO THE UNITED NATIONS TODAY
DENOUNCED THE DEMAND FOR U.N.
PEACEKEEPERS, SAYING IT IS
UKRAINE'S RESPONSIBILITY TO
MAINTAIN THE LATEST CEASEFIRE
AGREEMENT.
>> Ifill: THE U.S. SIGNED A DEAL
WITH TURKEY TO TRAIN AND ARM
SYRIAN REBELS WHO ARE FIGHTING
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
TALKS WENT ON FOR SEVERAL MONTHS
BEFORE THE AGREEMENT WAS
FORMALLY SIGNED BY THE U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO TURKEY TONIGHT.
TRAINING BY U.S. AND TURKISH
SOLDIERS COULD BEGIN AS EARLY AS
NEXT MONTH.
>> Woodruff: THE GREEK
GOVERNMENT CAME FORWARD TODAY
WITH ITS REQUEST FOR A SIX-MONTH
EXTENSION OF ITS RESCUE LOAN.
BUT GERMAN OFFICIALS QUICKLY
REJECTED IT, CALLING IT A
"TROJAN HORSE" FOR SHIRKING ITS
COMMITMENTS AND LEAVING TOO MUCH
OPEN FOR INTERPRETATION.
THE GERMAN MINISTER FOR ECONOMIC
AFFAIRS SPOKE IN BERLIN.
>> ( translated ): THIS OFFER IS
INSUFFICIENT BECAUSE IT LACKS
ALL SPECIFIC MEASURES IN GREECE.
AND THAT CANNOT HAPPEN.
WE CANNOT MAKE IT EASIER IN
GREECE ON THE SHOULDERS OF
GERMAN AND EUROPEAN TAX PAYERS.
OVER THE NEXT DAYS, ESPECIALLY
TOMORROW, WE NEED TO NEGOTIATE
FURTHER TO FIND AN AGREEMENT ON
SPECIFIC MEASURES.
THE PROPOSAL CAN ONLY BE THE
START OF TALKS.
>> Woodruff: GREECE'S CURRENT
BAILOUT EXPIRES AT THE END OF
THIS MONTH.
IF THE PARTIES CAN'T REACH AN
AGREEMENT BEFORE THEN, THE GREEK
GOVERNMENT FACES BANKRUPTCY.
>> Ifill: IT WAS A MOSTLY
CAUTIOUS DAY ON WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 44 POINTS TO CLOSE JUST
UNDER 18,000.
THE NASDAQ GAINED 18 POINTS.
AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED TWO
POINTS.
>> Woodruff: WALMART, THE
COUNTRY'S LARGEST PRIVATE
EMPLOYER, IS GIVING RAISES TO
NEARLY HALF A MILLION OF ITS
U.S. WORKERS.
OVER THE NEXT SIX MONTHS, FULL-
TIME EMPLOYEES WILL GET $13 AN
HOUR, AND PART-TIME WORKERS WILL
RECEIVE $10 AN HOUR.
WALMART HAS FACED CRITICISM FROM
LABOR GROUPS AND ITS OWN
WORKFORCE FOR POOR COMPENSATION
AND BENEFITS.
THE NEW WAGES STILL FALL SHORT
OF THE NATIONAL AVERAGE FOR
HOURLY RETAIL WORKERS.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA
DESIGNATE THREE NEWMANMENTS.
IN SHIRKS THE PULLMAN
NATIONALMANMENT IN THE SOUTH
SIDE NEIGHBORHOOD.
ALSO BROWNS CANYON NATIONAL
MONUMENT, 21,000 AIRSTRIKES
ALONG THE ARKANSAS RIVER IN
COLORADO.REATED A NATIONAL
MONUMENT IN HAWAII AT THE SITE
OF AN INTERMENT CAMP THAT HELD
CAMP KNEES CITIZENS IN WORLD WAR
TWO.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
U.N. CHIEF BAN KI-MN ONOO
PREVENTING VIOLENT EXTREMISM AT
ITS ROOT.
HOW TERRORISTS FINANCE THEIR
DEADLY WORK.
THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND
HUMANERVI SCES ON THE SUCCESSES
OF, AND UNRELENTING CHALLENGES
TO, OBAMACARE.
WHAT REMAINS FOR YAZIDI GIRLS IN
IRAQ AFTER SLAVERY AND ABUSE.
AND, THE MELODIES AND MEMORIES
OF OPERA SINGER DEBORAH VOIGT.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
AGAIN WARNED TODAY OF THE
GROWING THREAT OF EXTREMISM
AROUND THE WORLD AT A WHITE
HOUSE SPONSORED CONFERENCE, AND
URGED THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY TO DO
MORE TO STOP IT.
>> RESPONSIBILITY TO CUT OFF
FUNDING THAT FUELS HATRED AND
CORRUPTS YOUNG MINDS AND
ENDANGEROUS US ALL.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
SHIFTS HIS FOCUS
SHIFTED HIS FOCUS OVERSEAS
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
TODAY, BEFORE AN AUDIENCE OF
SHIFTED HIS FOCUS OVERSEAS
MINISTERS FROM AROUND THE WORLD.
TODAY, BEFORE AN AUDIENCE OF
HE PLACED SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON
MINISTERS FROM AROUND THE WORLD.
THE ROLE DEMOCRACY PLAYS IN
HE PLACED SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON
FIGHTING TERRORISM, A THEME
THE ROLE DEMOCRACY PLAYS IN
OFTEN HEARD FROM HIS
FIGHTING TERRORISM, A THEME
PREDECESSOR, GEORGE W. BUSH.
OFTEN HEARD FROM HIS
>> WHEN DISSENT IS SILENCED, IT
PREDECESSOR, GEORGE W. BUSH.
FEEDS VIOLENT EXTREMISM.
>> WHEN DISSENT IS SILENCED, IT
IT CREATES AN ENVIRONMENT THAT
FEEDS VIOLENT EXTREMISM.
IS RIPE FOR TERRORISTS TO
IT CREATES AN ENVIRONMENT THAT
EXPLOIT.
IS RIPE FOR TERRORISTS TO
WHEN PEACEFUL DEMOCRATIC CHANGE
EXPLOIT.
IS IMPOSSIBLE, IT FEEDS INTO THE
WHEN PEACEFUL DEMOCRATIC CHANGE
TERRORIST PROPAGANDA THAT IDEA
IS IMPOSSIBLE, IT FEEDS INTO THE
THAT VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY ANSWER
TERRORIST PROPAGANDA THAT IDEA
AVAILABLE.
THAT VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY ANSWER
>> Woodruff: MR. OBAMA ALSO
AVAILABLE.
URGED LEADERS TO EXPAND HUMAN
>> Woodruff: MR. OBAMA ALSO
AND RELIGIOUS RIGHTS AS THEY
URGED LEADERS TO EXPAND HUMAN
CONFRONT EXTREMIST IDEOLOGIES
AND RELIGIOUS RIGHTS AS THEY
FROM GROUPS LIKE ISLAMIC STATE.
CONFRONT EXTREMIST IDEOLOGIES
ALSO KEY: FOSTERING ECONOMIC AND
FROM GROUPS LIKE ISLAMIC STATE.
EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR
ALSO KEY: FOSTERING ECONOMIC AND
YOUNG PEOPLE WHO MAY BE
EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR
RECEPTIVE TO THE MILITANTS'
YOUNG PEOPLE WHO MAY BE
CALL.
RECEPTIVE TO THE MILITANTS'
DELEGATES FROM 65 COUNTRIES ALSO
CALL.
HEARD FROM U.N. SECRETARY
DELEGATES FROM 65 COUNTRIES ALSO
GENERAL, BAN KI-MOON.
HEARD FROM U.N. SECRETARY
>> WE WILL NEVER FIND OUR WAYS
GENERAL, BAN KI-MOON.
BY DISCARDING OUR MORAL COMPASS.
>> WE WILL NEVER FIND OUR WAYS
WE NEED COOL HEADS, WE NEED
BY DISCARDING OUR MORAL COMPASS.
COMMON SENSE, AND WE MUST NEVER
WE NEED COOL HEADS, WE NEED
LET FEAR RULE.
COMMON SENSE, AND WE MUST NEVER
>> Woodruff: HE PSSEDRE FOR
LET FEAR RULE.
ALTERNATIVES TO PURELY MILITARY
>> Woodruff: HE PSSEDRE FOR
RESPONSES.
ALTERNATIVES TO PURELY MILITARY
>> IT IS ALL ABOUT EDUCATION,
RESPONSES.
EDUCATION, EDUCATION.
>> IT IS ALL ABOUT EDUCATION,
OPPORTUNITY, OPPORTUNITY,
EDUCATION, EDUCATION.
OPPORTUNITY.
OPPORTUNITY, OPPORTUNITY,
EMPOWERMENT, EMPOWERMENT,
OPPORTUNITY.
EMPOWERMENT.
EMPOWERMENT, EMPOWERMENT,
>> Woodruff: JORDAN'S FOREIGN
EMPOWERMENT.
MINISTER NASSER JUDAH VOWED HIS
>> Woodruff: JORDAN'S FOREIGN
COUNTRY WILL LEAD THE FIGHT
MINISTER NASSER JUDAH VOWED HIS
AGAINST EXTREMISTS, A ROLE THAT
COUNTRY WILL LEAD THE FIGHT
HAS STEPPED UP SINCE THE
AGAINST EXTREMISTS, A ROLE THAT
EXECUTION-BY-BURNING OF A
HAS STEPPED UP SINCE THE
JORDANIAN PILOT BY ISLAMIC
EXECUTION-BY-BURNING OF A
STATE.
JORDANIAN PILOT BY ISLAMIC
>> IF ANYONE HAD ANY DOUBT THE
STATE.
BRUTALITY AND BARBARISM OF THESE
>> IF ANYONE HAD ANY DOUBT THE
EXTREMISTS, THEN THIS DOUBT HAS
BRUTALITY AND BARBARISM OF THESE
BEEN REMOVED.
EXTREMISTS, THEN THIS DOUBT HAS
IF ANYONE HAD ANY DOUBT THAT
BEEN REMOVED.
THIS IS OUR WAR AS MUSLIMS AND
IF ANYONE HAD ANY DOUBT THAT
OUR COLLECTIVE WAR AS AN
THIS IS OUR WAR AS MUSLIMS AND
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, THAT
OUR COLLECTIVE WAR AS AN
DOUBT HAS BEEN REMOVED.
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, THAT
>> Woodruff: AND AS EUROPE REELS
DOUBT HAS BEEN REMOVED.
FROM A SPIKE IN HOME-GROWN
>> Woodruff: AND AS EUROPE REELS
TERRORISM AND ITS OWN CITIZENS
FROM A SPIKE IN HOME-GROWN
LEAVING TO JOIN ISLAMIC STATE
TERRORISM AND ITS OWN CITIZENS
AND OTHER GROUPS, THE FRENCH
LEAVING TO JOIN ISLAMIC STATE
INTERIOR MINISTER HIGHLIGHTED
AND OTHER GROUPS, THE FRENCH
THE DIFFERENT PATHWAYS LEADING
INTERIOR MINISTER HIGHLIGHTED
PEOPLE TOWARD EXTREMISM,
THE DIFFERENT PATHWAYS LEADING
INCLUDING SOCIAL MEDIA.
PEOPLE TOWARD EXTREMISM,
>> ( translated ): THE PROFILE
INCLUDING SOCIAL MEDIA.
OF TERRORISTS AND POTENTIAL
>> ( translated ): THE PROFILE
TERRORISTS IS VERY DIVERSIFIED
OF TERRORISTS AND POTENTIAL
NOW.
TERRORISTS IS VERY DIVERSIFIED
MANY HAVE ACCESS TO THE INTERNET
NOW.
AND LEARNING ON THE INTERNET.
MANY HAVE ACCESS TO THE INTERNET
THEY GO ABROAD AND THEY ARE
AND LEARNING ON THE INTERNET.
TRAINED TO KILL WHEN THEY COME
THEY GO ABROAD AND THEY ARE
BACK TO EUROPE.
TRAINED TO KILL WHEN THEY COME
THEY GO FROM CRIMINALITY TO
BACK TO EUROPE.
TERRORISM.
THEY GO FROM CRIMINALITY TO
IN PRISON, THEY HAVE CONTACT
TERRORISM.
WITH EXTREME TERRORISTS.
IN PRISON, THEY HAVE CONTACT
>> Woodruff: PRIVATE MEETINGS
WITH EXTREME TERRORISTS.
AMONG THE MINISTERS WERE HELD
>> Woodruff: PRIVATE MEETINGS
THROUGHOUT THE DAY, AS THEY
AMONG THE MINISTERS WERE HELD
SEARCH FOR A FULL SPECTRUM
THROUGHOUT THE DAY, AS THEY
RESPONSE TO A COMPLEX,
SEARCH FOR A FULL SPECTRUM
BEDEVILING CHALLENGE.
RESPONSE TO A COMPLEX,
EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON, I SAT
BEDEVILING CHALLENGE.
DOWN WITH THE UNITED NATIONS
EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON, I SAT
SECRETARY GENERAL, BAN KI-MOON,
DOWN WITH THE UNITED NATIONS
WHILE HE WAS IN WASHINGTON
SECRETARY GENERAL, BAN KI-MOON,
MR. SECRETARY GENERAL, THANK YOU
WHILE HE WAS IN WASHINGTON
FOR JOINING US.
MR. SECRETARY GENERAL, THANK YOU
>> IT'S A GREAT PLEASURE TO SEE
FOR JOINING US.
YOU, THANK YOU.
>> IT'S A GREAT PLEASURE TO SEE
>> Woodruff: SO YOU ARE IN
YOU, THANK YOU.
WASHINGTON FOR THIS SUMMIT ON
>> Woodruff: SO YOU ARE IN
COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM.
WASHINGTON FOR THIS SUMMIT ON
COMPARED TO ALL THE OTHER
COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM.
THREATS IN THE WORLD RIGHT NOW,
COMPARED TO ALL THE OTHER
WHERE DOES THIS RANK?
THREATS IN THE WORLD RIGHT NOW,
>> WE HAVE BEEN DUESING ABOUT
WHERE DOES THIS RANK?
THE CONSEQUENCES OF TERRORIST
>> WE HAVE BEEN DUESING ABOUT
ACTS.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF TERRORIST
THE PURPOSE OF THIS MEETING IS
ACTS.
VERY IMPORTANT.
THE PURPOSE OF THIS MEETING IS
IN A SENSE THAT WE HAVE TO
VERY IMPORTANT.
ADDRESS TERRORISM AND VIOLENT
IN A SENSE THAT WE HAVE TO
EXTREMISM IN A MULTI-DIMENSIONAL
ADDRESS TERRORISM AND VIOLENT
WAY, STARTING FROM THE ROOT
EXTREMISM IN A MULTI-DIMENSIONAL
CAUSES OF POLITICAL, SOCIAL,
WAY, STARTING FROM THE ROOT
ECONOMIC AND CULTURAL ASPECTS.
CAUSES OF POLITICAL, SOCIAL,
THIS IS A GLOBAL CHALLENGE AND,
ECONOMIC AND CULTURAL ASPECTS.
THEREFORE, EVERYBODY SHOULD GET
THIS IS A GLOBAL CHALLENGE AND,
INVOLVED WITH THIS.
THEREFORE, EVERYBODY SHOULD GET
I AM VERY ENCOURAGED PRESIDENT
INVOLVED WITH THIS.
OBAMA HAS INITIATED THIS WHITE
I AM VERY ENCOURAGED PRESIDENT
HOUSE SUMMIT MEETING AND THIS IS
OBAMA HAS INITIATED THIS WHITE
THE TIME FOR US TO SHOW OUR
HOUSE SUMMIT MEETING AND THIS IS
SOLIDARITY, AT THE SAME TIME
THE TIME FOR US TO SHOW OUR
BUILD UPON WHAT WE HAVE BEEN
SOLIDARITY, AT THE SAME TIME
DOING UNTIL NOW.
BUILD UPON WHAT WE HAVE BEEN
FOCUSING ON MORE PREVENTATIVE
DOING UNTIL NOW.
WAYS.
FOCUSING ON MORE PREVENTATIVE
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF
WAYS.
CONVERSATION TODAY, YOU BROUGHT
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF
UP EDUCATION, PREVENTING
CONVERSATION TODAY, YOU BROUGHT
TERRORISM, PREVENTING YOUNG
UP EDUCATION, PREVENTING
PEOPLE FROM TURNING TO TERRORIST
TERRORISM, PREVENTING YOUNG
ACTIVITIES.
PEOPLE FROM TURNING TO TERRORIST
BUT WHAT ABOUT WHERE IT'S
ACTIVITIES.
ALREADY TAKEN HOLD?
BUT WHAT ABOUT WHERE IT'S
WHAT ABOUT IN PLACES IN THE
ALREADY TAKEN HOLD?
MIDDLE EAST WHERE GROUPS LIKE
WHAT ABOUT IN PLACES IN THE
ISLAMIC STATE I.S.I.S. ARE
MIDDLE EAST WHERE GROUPS LIKE
ALREADY KILLING PEOPLE, TAKING
ISLAMIC STATE I.S.I.S. ARE
OVER TERRORIST.
ALREADY KILLING PEOPLE, TAKING
WHAT'S TO BE DONE THERE?
OVER TERRORIST.
>> FOR THOSE BARBARIC ACTS, WE
WHAT'S TO BE DONE THERE?
REFER TO AS SUCH.
>> FOR THOSE BARBARIC ACTS, WE
MANY COUNTRIES HAVE SHOWN SUCH A
REFER TO AS SUCH.
STRONG SOLIDARITY EVEN USING
MANY COUNTRIES HAVE SHOWN SUCH A
MILITARY MEANS.
STRONG SOLIDARITY EVEN USING
BUT MILITARY MEANS MAY WILL B
MILITARY MEANS.
EFFECTIVE IN SOME SENSE BUT
BUT MILITARY MEANS MAY WILL B
THAT'S NOT ALL THE ANSWERS.
EFFECTIVE IN SOME SENSE BUT
WE HAVE TO GET AT THE ROOT
THAT'S NOT ALL THE ANSWERS.
CAUSES.
WE HAVE TO GET AT THE ROOT
GOOD GOVERNANCE IS AN ANSWER AND
CAUSES.
HOW TO EDUCATE AND HOW TO SEND A
GOOD GOVERNANCE IS AN ANSWER AND
MESSAGE TO MANY PEOPLE AND HOW
HOW TO EDUCATE AND HOW TO SEND A
TO PROTECT THE HUMAN RIGHTS AND
MESSAGE TO MANY PEOPLE AND HOW
DIGNITY OF MARGINALIZED PEOPLE,
TO PROTECT THE HUMAN RIGHTS AND
HOW TO MAKE SURE THAT THE PEOPLE
DIGNITY OF MARGINALIZED PEOPLE,
ARE FEELING SOME SENSE OF
HOW TO MAKE SURE THAT THE PEOPLE
BELONGING TO THEIR SOCIETY.
ARE FEELING SOME SENSE OF
>> Woodruff: WOULD YOU SAY NOW
BELONGING TO THEIR SOCIETY.
VIOLENT EXTREMISM IS THE
>> Woodruff: WOULD YOU SAY NOW
GREATEST THREAT TO WORLD
VIOLENT EXTREMISM IS THE
STABILITY?
GREATEST THREAT TO WORLD
>> I BELIEVE SO.
STABILITY?
WE HAVE SEEN SO MANY CRISES
>> I BELIEVE SO.
REGIONALLY AND NATIONAL
WE HAVE SEEN SO MANY CRISES
CONFLICTS, BUT THE TRANSLATION
REGIONALLY AND NATIONAL
IS TERRORISM AND EXTREMISM DO
CONFLICTS, BUT THE TRANSLATION
NOT HAVE BORDERS, THEREFORE IT
IS TERRORISM AND EXTREMISM DO
IS A GLOBAL CHALLENGE.
NOT HAVE BORDERS, THEREFORE IT
IF WE DON'T ADDRESS THIS, THIS
IS A GLOBAL CHALLENGE.
WILL DESTROY THE FABRIC OF OUR
IF WE DON'T ADDRESS THIS, THIS
COMMUNITY.
WILL DESTROY THE FABRIC OF OUR
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
COMMUNITY.
ABOUT THAT BECAUSE, YES,
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
I.S.I.S. IS GIVING THE ISLAMIC
ABOUT THAT BECAUSE, YES,
STATE A LOT OF ATTENTION RIGHT
I.S.I.S. IS GIVING THE ISLAMIC
NOW IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
STATE A LOT OF ATTENTION RIGHT
SYRIA, BUT, IN FACT, WHILE THAT
NOW IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
IS HAPPENING, THE REGIME OF
SYRIA, BUT, IN FACT, WHILE THAT
PRESIDENT ASSAD IS RESPONSIBLE
IS HAPPENING, THE REGIME OF
FOR HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
PRESIDENT ASSAD IS RESPONSIBLE
DEATHS, 350 PEOPLE DIED JUST IN
FOR HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
THE LAST FEW DAYS IN DAMASCUS,
DEATHS, 350 PEOPLE DIED JUST IN
OVER 100 OF THEM WOMEN AND
THE LAST FEW DAYS IN DAMASCUS,
CHILDREN.
OVER 100 OF THEM WOMEN AND
IS IT WORLD GIVING PRESIDENT
CHILDREN.
ASSAD A FREE PASS, TURNING THE
IS IT WORLD GIVING PRESIDENT
OTHER YWA WHILE IT FOCUSES ON
ASSAD A FREE PASS, TURNING THE
I.S.I.S. AND NOT ON HIM?
OTHER YWA WHILE IT FOCUSES ON
>> NO, WE CANNOT AND WE WILL
I.S.I.S. AND NOT ON HIM?
NEVER GIVE ANY FREE PASS TO
>> NO, WE CANNOT AND WE WILL
ANYBODY INCLUDING PRESIDENT
NEVER GIVE ANY FREE PASS TO
ASSAD TO KILL THEIR OWN PEOPLE.
ANYBODY INCLUDING PRESIDENT
THAT'S TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE.
ASSAD TO KILL THEIR OWN PEOPLE.
AT THE SAME TIME, WE HAVE TO BE
THAT'S TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE.
VERY PRACTICAL ON HOW TO RESOLVE
AT THE SAME TIME, WE HAVE TO BE
THIS ISSUE.
VERY PRACTICAL ON HOW TO RESOLVE
THERE IS NO ALTERNATIVE TO
THIS ISSUE.
POLITICAL AND INCLUSIVE
THERE IS NO ALTERNATIVE TO
DIALOGUE, A POLITICAL SOLUTION.
POLITICAL AND INCLUSIVE
THAT'S WHAT MY SPECIAL ENVOY HAS
DIALOGUE, A POLITICAL SOLUTION.
BEEN REALLY TRYING TO RESOLVE
THAT'S WHAT MY SPECIAL ENVOY HAS
THIS ISSUE, TRYING TO HAVE SOME
BEEN REALLY TRYING TO RESOLVE
POLITICAL SPACE, AS MUCH AS
THIS ISSUE, TRYING TO HAVE SOME
POSSIBLE.
POLITICAL SPACE, AS MUCH AS
>> Woodruff: BUT YOUR POINT IS
POSSIBLE.
PRESIDENT ASSAD STILL HAS TO GO
>> Woodruff: BUT YOUR POINT IS
FOR THERE TO BE A SOLUTION IN
PRESIDENT ASSAD STILL HAS TO GO
SYRIA?
FOR THERE TO BE A SOLUTION IN
>> THAT WILL HAVE TO BE
SYRIA?
DISCUSSED IN THE FINAL PHASE OF
>> THAT WILL HAVE TO BE
POLITICAL NEGOTIATIONS AND BY
DISCUSSED IN THE FINAL PHASE OF
THE PEOPLE.
POLITICAL NEGOTIATIONS AND BY
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
THE PEOPLE.
ABOUT UKRAINE, WE'VE SEEN GREAT
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ADVANCES BY THE PRO RUSSIAN
ABOUT UKRAINE, WE'VE SEEN GREAT
REBELS IN A FEW DAYS.
ADVANCES BY THE PRO RUSSIAN
THEY'VE TAKEN OVER A KEY TOWN.
REBELS IN A FEW DAYS.
THE BRITISH ARE PROVIDING
THEY'VE TAKEN OVER A KEY TOWN.
PHOTOGRAPHIC EVIDENCE THE REBELS
THE BRITISH ARE PROVIDING
ARE USING ADVANCED ANTI-AIRCRAFT
PHOTOGRAPHIC EVIDENCE THE REBELS
WEAPONS SYSTEM, THE SA-22.
ARE USING ADVANCED ANTI-AIRCRAFT
IS THERE ANY DOUBT THAT
WEAPONS SYSTEM, THE SA-22.
PRESIDENT PUTIN AND RUSSIA ARE
IS THERE ANY DOUBT THAT
VERY MUCH BEHIND WHAT IS GOING
PRESIDENT PUTIN AND RUSSIA ARE
ON IN UKRAINE AND BY LETTING
VERY MUCH BEHIND WHAT IS GOING
THIS HAPPEN, BY THE WEST NOT
ON IN UKRAINE AND BY LETTING
GETTING MORE INVOLVED, ISN'T
THIS HAPPEN, BY THE WEST NOT
THIS GIVING PRESIDENT PUTIN A
GETTING MORE INVOLVED, ISN'T
VICTORY?
THIS GIVING PRESIDENT PUTIN A
>> IT'S NOT A MATTER OF GIVING
VICTORY?
SOMETHING A VICTORY OR NOT.
>> IT'S NOT A MATTER OF GIVING
THE LEADERS -- GERMANY,
SOMETHING A VICTORY OR NOT.
FRARNTION UKRAINE AND RUSSIA-THE
THE LEADERS -- GERMANY,
MEETING WAS AN ENCOURAGING ONE
FRARNTION UKRAINE AND RUSSIA-THE
AND URGING THE PARTY'S CONCERN
MEETING WAS AN ENCOURAGING ONE
THESE ARE WOMEN, THE POLITICAL
AND URGING THE PARTY'S CONCERN
MEMORANDUM MUST BE IMPLEMENTED
THESE ARE WOMEN, THE POLITICAL
IN SINCERITY AND TOTALITY.
MEMORANDUM MUST BE IMPLEMENTED
THERE IS FIGHTING STILL GOING ON
IN SINCERITY AND TOTALITY.
IN DONETSK AND MARIUPOL.
THERE IS FIGHTING STILL GOING ON
I'M URGING THEM TO ABITE BY THIS
IN DONETSK AND MARIUPOL.
AGREEMENT.
I'M URGING THEM TO ABITE BY THIS
THERE'S NO WAY OR ALTERNATIVE TO
AGREEMENT.
THE SOLUTION OF THIS PEACEFUL
THERE'S NO WAY OR ALTERNATIVE TO
DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION.
THE SOLUTION OF THIS PEACEFUL
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE THE
DIALOGUE AND NEGOTIATION.
BRITISH ARE SAYING JUST TODAY
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE THE
THAT RUSSIAN FIGHTER JETS WERE
BRITISH ARE SAYING JUST TODAY
VERY CLOSE TO BRITISH AIRSPACE,
THAT RUSSIAN FIGHTER JETS WERE
THAT THE BRITISH OFFICIALS ARE
VERY CLOSE TO BRITISH AIRSPACE,
SAYING PRESIDENT PUTIN IS A REAL
THAT THE BRITISH OFFICIALS ARE
AND PRESENT DANGER TO EUROPE,
SAYING PRESIDENT PUTIN IS A REAL
THERE IS AN E.U. OFFICIAL THAT
AND PRESENT DANGER TO EUROPE,
IS SAYING MR. PUTIN IS TRYING TO
THERE IS AN E.U. OFFICIAL THAT
REDRAW THE BOUNDARIES OF EUROPE
IS SAYING MR. PUTIN IS TRYING TO
BY FORCE.
REDRAW THE BOUNDARIES OF EUROPE
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
BY FORCE.
>> PRESIDENT POROSHENKO OF
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
UKRAINE HAS ANNOUNCED THAT HE
>> PRESIDENT POROSHENKO OF
WILL PULL ALL THE MILITARY
UKRAINE HAS ANNOUNCED THAT HE
ARMAMENT AND HIS FORCES AND
WILL PULL ALL THE MILITARY
THEREFORE DEPLOY RUSSIANS AND
ARMAMENT AND HIS FORCES AND
THE RUSSIAN SIDE SHALL POUR OUT.
THEREFORE DEPLOY RUSSIANS AND
THE AGREEMENT OF JUST A FEW DAYS
THE RUSSIAN SIDE SHALL POUR OUT.
AGO IS A MATTER OF INTEGRITY.
THE AGREEMENT OF JUST A FEW DAYS
>> Woodruff: EXCUSE ME, BUT
AGO IS A MATTER OF INTEGRITY.
THAT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT'S
>> Woodruff: EXCUSE ME, BUT
HAPPENING.
THAT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT'S
>> I'M URGING AS SECRETARY
HAPPENING.
GENERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS TO
>> I'M URGING AS SECRETARY
ABIDE STRICTLY BY THIS
GENERAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS TO
AGREEMENT.
ABIDE STRICTLY BY THIS
UNITED NATIONS HAS MADE CLEAR
AGREEMENT.
THAT THE UNITED NATIONS WILL DO
UNITED NATIONS HAS MADE CLEAR
ALL TO PROVIDE THE HUMANITARIAN
THAT THE UNITED NATIONS WILL DO
ASSISTANCE TO THOSE WHO HAVE
ALL TO PROVIDE THE HUMANITARIAN
BEEN AFFECTED AND ALSO CONTINUE
ASSISTANCE TO THOSE WHO HAVE
THE HUMAN RIGHTS MISSION THERE.
BEEN AFFECTED AND ALSO CONTINUE
>> Woodruff: BUT, AGAIN, SO
THE HUMAN RIGHTS MISSION THERE.
MANY CHALLENGES FACING THE
>> Woodruff: BUT, AGAIN, SO
UNITED NATIONS.
MANY CHALLENGES FACING THE
TWO OF YOUR FORMER PREDECESSORS
UNITED NATIONS.
AS SECRETARY GENERAL HAVE ISSUED
TWO OF YOUR FORMER PREDECESSORS
A LETTER SAYING THAT THEY FEEL
AS SECRETARY GENERAL HAVE ISSUED
STRONGLY THE UNITED NATIONS
A LETTER SAYING THAT THEY FEEL
NEEDS TO BE RECONFIGURED, IT
STRONGLY THE UNITED NATIONS
NEEDS TO BE REFORMED IN A WAY
NEEDS TO BE RECONFIGURED, IT
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL DOESN'T
NEEDS TO BE REFORMED IN A WAY
HAVE THE VETO SYSTEM THAT IT
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL DOESN'T
DOES NOW, THAT IT'S MORE
HAVE THE VETO SYSTEM THAT IT
TRANSPARENT, MORE DEMOCRATIC,
DOES NOW, THAT IT'S MORE
THAT THE U.N. ISN'T RESPECTED
TRANSPARENT, MORE DEMOCRATIC,
ANYMORE BY THE PEOPLE FIGHTING
THAT THE U.N. ISN'T RESPECTED
ON THE GROUND OR EVEN MEMBER
ANYMORE BY THE PEOPLE FIGHTING
COUNTRIES.
ON THE GROUND OR EVEN MEMBER
DO THEY HAVE A POINT THAT THE
COUNTRIES.
U.N. ISN'T RESPECTED AND DOESN'T
DO THEY HAVE A POINT THAT THE
HAVE THE AUTHORITY THAT IT NEEDS
U.N. ISN'T RESPECTED AND DOESN'T
TO HAVE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
HAVE THE AUTHORITY THAT IT NEEDS
>> I THINK JUST TO GENERALIZE
TO HAVE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
WHAT THATIONs DOING ISN'T
>> I THINK JUST TO GENERALIZE
HELPFUL AT THIS TIME.
WHAT THATIONs DOING ISN'T
THATIONs NOT A PERFECT
HELPFUL AT THIS TIME.
ORGANIZATION.
THATIONs NOT A PERFECT
THERE ARE MANY CHALLENGES.
ORGANIZATION.
FOR US, THERE ARE SOME
THERE ARE MANY CHALLENGES.
INEFFICIENCIES, BUT SINCE I
FOR US, THERE ARE SOME
BECAME SECRETARY GENERAL, I HAVE
INEFFICIENCIES, BUT SINCE I
BEEN TRYING TO MAKE THE UNITED
BECAME SECRETARY GENERAL, I HAVE
NATIONS MORE RELEVANT,
BEEN TRYING TO MAKE THE UNITED
EFFICIENT, EFFECTIVE AND MORE
NATIONS MORE RELEVANT,
TRANSPARENT.
EFFICIENT, EFFECTIVE AND MORE
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY GENERAL
TRANSPARENT.
OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE KNOW
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY GENERAL
THERE ARE A LOT OF CHALLENGES
OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE KNOW
OUT THERE AND APPRECIATE YOU
THERE ARE A LOT OF CHALLENGES
COMING IN TO TALK TO US.
OUT THERE AND APPRECIATE YOU
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
COMING IN TO TALK TO US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: ONE MAJOR ELEMENT IN
THE BATTLE AGAINST TERROR IS THE
THREAT TO HOSTAGES, AND THE
DEMAND FOR RANSOM.
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT SAYS PAYING
FOR THEIR RELEASE ONLY FEEDS THE
MONEY MACHINE.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN HAS BEEN LOOKING INTO
HOW TERRORISM IS FINANCED,
PART OF OUR ONGOING REPORTING,
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> Reporter: SUICIDE BOMBINGS,
BRUTAL ATTACKS ON INNOCENT
CIVILIANS, HOSTAGE-TAKING WITH
FATAL CONSEQUENCES.
TERRORISM, IT SEEMS, IS BECOMING
FRIGHTENINGLY FREQUENT.
WHAT ARE THE ECONOMICS OF
TERROR?
THE COST BENEFITS OF PAYING
RANSOM TO ISLAMIC STATE
KIDNAPPERS?
ECONOMIST TODD SANDLER SAYS THE
RESULTS ARE CLEAR IF
CONTROVERSIAL, DO NOT PAY.
>> YOU'VE GOT ONE PERSON BACK
AND ON AVERAGE IT ENCOURAGES TWO
TO THREE MORE TO BE TAKEN
HOSTAGE AFTER THAT.
THIS IS BASED ON 40 YEARS OF
DAILY DATA COLLECTED WORLDWIDE.
>> Reporter: BUT I.S.I.S. MAY
BE A NEW BRAND OF KIDNAPPERS AND
HOSTAGES ARE NOT JUST DATA
POINTS, THEY'RE HUMAN BEINGS
WITH FRIENDS AND FAMILIES WHO
WILL DO ALMOST ANYTHING TO GET
THEM BACK.
A BOOK HAS BEEN WRITTEN ABOUT
IT, TREASURY'S WAR.
>> THE REALITY THE PEOPLE WANT
THEIR LOVED ONES BACK AND
WILLING TO SPEND MONEY
REGARDLESS OF THE DOWNSTREAM
IMPACT ON TERRORISM, REGARDLESS
ON THE EFFECTS POTENTIALLY ON
OTHER POTENTIAL HOSTAGES DOWN
THE ROAD.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHY SO
MANY COUNTRIES HAVE PAID FOR THE
RELEASE OF THEIR CITIZENS.
>> GERMANY HAS BEEN KNOWN TO PAY
OFF, SPAIN A HAS BEEN KNOWN TO
PAY OFF, ITALY AND THE FRENCH
HAVE BEEN KNOWN TO PAY OFF.
THE IN FACT, THE RESEARCH WHAT
THE RESEARCH I'M TRYIN TRYING TO
NOW IS TO WHAT EXTENT, WHEN ONE
COUNTRY PAYS OFF, WHETHER THEY
BECOME MORE THE VICTIMS OF
FUTURE HOSTAGE-TAKING THAN THOSE
COUNTRIES WHO SAY THEY WILL
NEVER NEGOTIATE, AND THEY STAY
ALIVE.
>> WHAT'S YOUR GUESS?
THAT THE COUNTRIES THAT PAY
OFF GET HIT WITH MORE HOSTAGES.
>> Reporter: IN AN INTERVIEW
WITH BUZZ FEED, PRESIDENT OBAMA
WAS TERM HAT THE UNITED STATES
WILL NOT PAY RANSOM TO I.S.I.S.
BECAUSE IT WILL COST EVEN MORE
IN THE END.
>> WHAT WE DON'T WANT THE DO IS
MAKE OTHER AMERICAN CITIZENS
RIPER TARGETS FOR THE ACTIONS OF
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE THIS.
>> Reporter: BUT ON THE SAME
DAY AMERICAN HOSTAGE KAYLA
MUELLER WAS CONFIRMED DEAD, THE
PRESIDENT COULD HARDLY HELP BUT
EMPATHIZE WITH THOSE WHO DO WANT
TO PAY.
>> IT'S AS TOUGH AS ANYTHING I
DO, HAVING CONVERSATIONS WITH
PARENTS WHO UNDERSTANDABLY WANT
BY ANY MEANS NECESSARY FOR THEIR
CHILDREN TO BE SAFE.
>> Reporter: SO WHILE
ECONOMICS MAY DEEM IT COST
INEFFECTIVE FOR COUNTRIES TO PAY
RANSOM, DOESN'T MEAN THEY WILL
STOP PAYING.
>> IT'S A COLLECTIVE ACTION
PROBLEM.
EACH PERSON LOOKS AT IT FROM
THEIR POINT OF VIEW OR
CORPORATION SAYING IT WON'T
CHANGE THE BIG PICTURE BUT EVERY
TIME SOMEONE GIVES IN, IT SEEMS
TO CHANGE THE BIG PICTURE.
>> Reporter: EVEN MORE
PRESSURE TO PAY WHEN YOU'RE
DEALING WITH KIDNAPPERS WHO
MANIPULATE THE MEDIA TO PROJECT
THE RUTHLESSNESS OF THEIR
METHODS.
>> THE LOVED ONES HAVE TO WONDER
WHETHER OR NOT NOT NEGOTIATING
WILL LEAD TO THE SLAUGHTER OF
THEIR LOVED ONES AND WE'VE SEEN
THE ISLAMIC STATE HAS BEEN
WILLING TO UP THE ANTE WITH ITS
BARBARITY AND CRUELTY.
SO HOSTAGES FOR THE ISLAMIC
STATE IN MANY WAYS HAVE BECOME
STRATEGIC PAWNS IN A BROADER
CONFLICT AND A BROADER
IDEOLOGICAL BATTLE, IN A BROADER
CAMPAIGN FOR PROPAGANDA AND
ATTENTION.
>> Reporter: PERVERSELY,
HOSTAGES HAVE BECOME
INCREASINGLY IMPORTANT
MONEYMAKERS FOR THE ISLAMIC
STATE OF LATE, ESPECIALLY SINCE
ALLIED AIR STRIKES AND LOWER
PRICES HAVE SLASHED I.S.I.S.
INCOME FROM COMMANDEERED OIL
FACILITIES IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
>> I.S.I.S. IS RUNNING A LOCAL
WAR ECONOMY AND IN SOME WAYS IS
A FOR-PROFIT TERRORIST OR
MILITANT GROUP.
KIDNAPPING FOR RANSOM HAS LIKELY
BECOME AN INDUSTRY IN SOME CASES
SO IN MANY WAYS IT'S LESS ABOUT
TERRORISM AND MORE ABOUT
COMMERCE AND PROFIT.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE RISE
OF I.S.I.S., HOWEVER, ECONOMIST
SANDLER FINDS TRANSNATIONAL
TERRORISM ACROSS BORDERS HAS
DECLINED.
>> IT'S ABOUT 40% LESS THAN WHAT
IT WAS IN THE 1980s AND EARLY
1990s.
HOWEVER, EACH INCIDENT IS MORE
LIKELY TO END IN BLOODSHED NOW.
>> Reporter: WHAT HAS BEEN
MOST COST EFFECTIVE IN
RESTRAINING CROSS BORDER
TERRORISM ACCORDING TO SANDLER'S
RESEARCH?
NOT OUR SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT
IN GLOBAL HOMELAND SECURITY
SINCE 2001.
>> WE SPEND MUCH TOO MUCH MONEY
ON DEFENSIVE MEASURES.
SO THE PAYBACK WE CALCULATED WAS
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 13 CENTS AND
23 CENTS, DEPENDING.
T DIDN'T STOP ANYDOLLAR SPENT.
INCIDENTS.
>> Reporter: BY CONTRAST THE
IDEA WAS THE FINE SYSTEM OPERATE
BID INTERPOL, THE INTERNATIONAL
POLICE ORGANIZATION, CHECKING
PASSPORTS AGAINST A DATABASE OF
TERRORISTS AND STOLEN TRAVEL
DOCUMENTS.
>> THE PAYBACK WAS ABOUT $40 FOR
EVERY DOLLAR SPENT.
>> Reporter: BUT FORMER
TREASURY OFFICIAL ZARANTE SAYS
THAT HOMELAND SECURITY MAY WELL
HAVE BEEN COST EFFECTIVE, TOO.
>> WHAT YOU'RE TRYING TO MEASURE
IS THINGS THAT DON'T HAPPEN
WHICH ARE HARD TO CALCULATE.
IT MAY NOT APPEAR ALL THAT COST
EFFECTIVE TO BE SPENDING MONEY
ON TRYING TO PREVENT, FOR
EXAMPLE, WMD TERRORISM, WHEN THE
PROBABILITY IS NOT THAT HIGH,
BUT IF IT WERE TO OCCUR WOULD BE
INCREDIBLY COSTLY TO NOT JUST
SOCIETY BUT TO AN ECONOMY.
>> Reporter: IN THE END, THE
BOTTOM LINE REMAINS ELUSIVE, BUT
THAT DOESN'T MEAN ECONOMIC
ANALYSIS ISN'T WORTH DOING.
AND DOESN'T WORK IN DEALING WITH
TERRORISM.
THIS IS ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN REPORTING FOR THE
PBS "NewsHour".
>> Ifill: IT'S BEEN AN IMPORTANT
WEEK F THEOR HEALTHCARE LAW THAT
MAY PROVIDE THE CORNERSTONE FOR
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S LEGACY.
MORE THAN 11 MILLION PEOPLE HAVE
SIGNED UP FOR INSURANCE COVERAGE
IN THE SECOND YEAR OF THE NEW
MARKETPLACES.
THAT'S HIGHER THAN YEAR ONE,
WHEN 6.7 MILLION PEOPLE
ULTIMATELY ENROLLED THROUGH
FEDERAL OR STATE EXCHANGES.
BUT THERE ARE BIG QUESTIONS
AHEAD.
IN JUST TWO WEEKS, THE SUPREME
COURT WILL HEAR ITS SECOND
CHALLENGE TO THE LAW-- THIS ONE
ABOUT WHETHER STATES CAN PROVIDE
SUBSIDIES TO BUY INSURANCE SOLD
THROUGH THE FEDERAL EXCHANGE.
MORE THAN 80% OF ENROLLEES HAVE
BEEN ELIGIBLE FOR THE SUBSIDIES,
AND 8.6 MILLION OF THOSE WHO
SIGNED UP THIS YEAR ENROLLED
THROUGH THE FEDERAL EXCHANGES.
SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL IS THE
SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES.
I SAT DOWN WITH HER EARLIER
TODAY AT THE AGENCY'S
HEADQUARTERS.
SECRETARY BURWELL, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
YOU ANNOUNCED THIS WEEK 11
PEOPLE HAVE NOW SIGNED UP FOR
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BUT THAT
THE NUMBERS COULD CHANGE?
>> 11.4 MILLION PEOPLE HAVE
SIGNED UP AND WHAT WE KNOW IS AS
WE GO THROUGH THE PROCESS THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WE KNOW MAY BE
LOW THAN THAT NUMBER.
WE HAVE A SPECIAL ENROLLMENT
PERIOD FOR THOSE STILL IN LINE
AT THE TIME OPEN ENROLLMENT
CLOSED SO WILL BE SOME ADDITIONS
AND PROBABLY SUBTRACTIONS FROM
THOSE NUMBERS OVER TIME.
>> Ifill: IS THERE SOME
DISCUSSION UNDERWAY ABOUT
EXTENDING THE ENROLLMENT FOR
PEOPLE IN APRIL WHO DON'T
REALIZE THEY'RE GOING TO BE
STUCK WITH TOUGH TAX ISSUES IF
THEY DON'T ENROLL?
>> WE'LL COME OUT SOON WITH A
DECISION ONE WAY OR THE OTHER
WHETHER OR NOT WE'LL EXTEND FOR
THOSE INDIVIDUALS.
>> Ifill: WE SAW THE PRESIDENT
MAKE A PITCH FOR YOUNG ENROLLEES
WITH HIS YOUTUBE VIDEO.
HOW DID THAT WORK OUT TO REACH
THE YOUNG INVINCIBLES NOT
NECESSARILY SIGNING UP?
>> WE KNOW THE ACCESS IN TERMS
OF THE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE THAT
VIEWED THE VIDEO AND, CERTAINLY,
IN THE FIRST LESS THAN 24 HOURS,
IT WAS 22 MILLION VIEWS.
>> Ifill: I VIEWED THE VIDEO
BUT I'M NOT THE POOL YOU'RE
GOING FOR.
>> WE KNOW THE NUMBER OF YOUTHS,
SO WE KNOW THE PEOPLE ACCESSED
THE INFORMATION.
WHAT'S IMPORTANT TO KNOW OVER
TIME IS WHETHER PEOPLE ACTED ON
THAT INFORMATION AND THAT WILL
HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE TILL WE
BREAK DOWN DEMOGRAPHICS.
>> Ifill: IF YOU HAD TO
MEASURE FROM THE BEGINNING OF
THE ENACTMENT OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT HOW WOULD YOU MEASURE
THE TRAJECTORY TOWARD YOUR GOAL
OF FEEING UNINSHARED PEOPLE
ENROLLED?
IS IT STEEP?
WHERE ARE WE?
>> I'D THINK ABOUT THE PASSAGE
OF THE ACT, THE ACT WAS ABOUT
QUALITY, AFFORDABILITY AND
ACCESS, ABOUT ALL THREE OF THOSE
THINGS AND HOW WE'RE MAKING
PROGRESS AGAINST ALL THREE OF
THOSE THINGS.
WITH REGARDTH
QUALITY AND IN TERMS OF WHAT HAS
HAPPENED TO PEOPLE IN THE
EMPLOYER-BASED MARKET, THEIR
QUALITY IMPROVED.
PREVIOUS CONDITIONS, SOMETHING
YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT.
IF YOU'RE A WOMAN YOU DON'T HAVE
TO WORRY ABOUT DING
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST IN TERMS
OF PRICING.
YOU CAN HAVE YOUR UP TO
25-YEAR-OLDS ON YOUR PLAN.
THAT'S IMPROVEMENTS IN QUALITY
HAPPENING AND HAPPENING TO
MILLIONS.
SO THAT'S BEEN A STEADY PACE AT
THE POINT WHICH THOSE THINGS
KICKED IN.
WITH REGARD TO THE NUMBER OF
UNINSURED, WE KNOW THAT LAST
YEAR FROM 2013 TO 2014 WE SAW
ABOUT A 10-MILLION PERSON DROP
IN THE NUMBER OF ADULTS
UNINSURED AND THAT WAS A JUMP WE
HADN'T SEEN SINCE THE 1970s.
IT WAS BASICALLY HISTORIC IN ITS
LEVEL AND WE'RE BUILDING ON THAT
THIS YEAR.
>> Ifill: ONE CLOUD LOOMING ON
THE HORIZON IS THE SUPREME
COURT.
MARCH 4 THEY WILL HEAR
CHALLENGES TO THE LAW.
WHAT IS THE BEST POSSIBLE
OUTCOME AND THE WORST POSSIBLE
OUTCOME FROM THE SUPREME COURT
CASE?
>> WE BELIEVE THE BEST POSSIBLE
AND CONFIDENT ABOUT IN TERMS OF
OUR POSITION GOING INTO THIS
CASE IS THE FACT THESE SUBSIDIES
WERE MEFNT FOR EVERYONE IN THE
UNITED STATES.
I'VE TRAVELED ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY TO A NUMBER OF PLACES
AND THE IDEA THAT THE UNITED
STATES CONGRESS WOULD PASS
LEGISLATION THAT WOULD GIVE A
FEDERAL TAX BENEFIT TO PEOPLE IN
NEW YORK BUT NOT TEXAS IS JUST
SOMETHING THAT DOESN'T MAKE A
LOT OF SENSE, AND WHEN YOU MEET
THE PEOPLE BENEFITING FROM THIS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY, YOU KNOW,
THE INDIVIDUALS AND WHETHER IT
WAS A WOMAN WHO HAD M.S. AND HAD
NOT TREATED HER M.S. EXCEPT
THROUGH THE EMERGENCY ROOM, THAT
SHE WAS NOT SUPPOSED TO GET A
TAX SUBSIDY, AND SOMEONE IN
NEW YORK WAS?
THE IDEA OF THAT, I THINK WE
BELIEVE WE'RE IN THE RIGHT
POSITION.
WITH REGARD TO WHAT DID THE
RAMIFICATIONS ARE, IT'S BEEN
ARTICULATED BY MANY FOLKS AND
THAT IS WE KNOW THAT 87% OF THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE COME THROUGH THE
FEDERAL MARKETPLACE ARE ELIGIBLE
FOR SUBSIDIES AND ONVER AAGE
QUALIFY FOR $268 PER MONTH PER
INDIVIDUAL.
WHEN THAT GOES AWAY, YOU LOSE
AFFORDABILITY.
WHEN YOU LOSE AFFORDABILITY, WE
INCREASE THE NUMBER OF
UNINSURED.
IN ADDITION, WHEN THAT HAPPENS,
WHAT WE SEE IS WE SEE A PATH
THAT PEOPLE THAT WILL BE INSURED
IN THE INDIVIDUAL MARKET WILL BE
SICKER MOST LIKELY.
LESS HEALTHY PEOPLE WILL GO IN
AND THAT DRIVES PREMIUMS UP AS
WELL.
>> PLAN B IS WHAT IF THAT WERE
TO HAPPEN, FOR STAYS TO STEP IN?
SOME SAID THEY WON'T.
>> AS I SAID BEFORE, WE'RE
FOCUSED ON WHERE WE BELIEVE WE
ARE IN THE RIGHT PLACE RIGHT
NOW.
>> Ifill: HAVE YOU BEEN
SPEAKING TO GOVERNORS OR STATE
LEGISLATORS ABOUT WHAT THEY DO,
GIVING THEM ADVICE ON WHAT THEIR
REACTIONS SHOULD BE AND WHAT
KINDS OF THINGS THEY SHOULD DO
TO PROTECT THEIR CITIZENS SHOULD
THIS BE OVERTURNED?
>> MY FOCUS HAS BEEN ON
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW, AND
WHETHER THAT'S IN OPEN
ENROLLMENT OR GOVERNORS, MY
CONVERSATIONS HAVE FOCUSED
OPENED MEDICAID ANT THE ISSUES
OF EXPANSION.
IN INDIANA RECENTLY WE'VE SEEN
THE EXPANSION, WE'RE CONTINUING
THE CONVERSATIONS AND IN
ARKANSAS WE SAW A NEW GOVERNOR
MOVE THROUGH HIS LEGISLATURE
PRETTY QUICKLY, THAT HE WOULD
CONTINUE ON THIS PATH.
>> A LOT ARE RESISTING
EXPANSION.
>> ABSOLUTELY WE WANT TO
CONTINUE TO WORK WITH THEM.
>> Ifill: IF MEDICAID
EXPANSION DOESN'T EXPAND, IF THE
SUPREME COURT WERE TO STEP BARKS
HOW SEVERELY DAMAGED WOULD BE
THE ULTIMATE GOAL OF THIS
ADMINISTRATION OF EXPANDING
HEALTHCARE CRORNLG TO ALL?
>> SO WE HAVE MADE SO MUCH
PROGRESS, AS WE JUST MENTIONED
EARLIER.
THE IDEA THAT WE'VE HAD THAT
10 MILLION DROP.
THE THE IDEA THERE ARE MILLIONS
OF PEOPLE, THE 11-POIN 11.4 WE'E
TALKING ABOUT, THIS IS IMPORTANT
IN HOW THEY LEAD THEIR LIVES,
THEIR FINANCIAL AND WELLNESS
SECURITY.
ONE WOMAN, HER MOTHER AND
GRANDMOTHER HAD THE BRACH GENE.
SHE WENT AND SHE DIDN'T HAVE IT.
THE WOMAN WHO WAS IN HER '50s
SAID I USED TO BE AFRAID WHEN I
WALKED BECAUSE IF I FELL IT
WOULD BANKRUPT ME.
THIS IS BUILT INTO THE WELLNESS
OF SO MANY PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: SYLVIA BURWELL,
THANK Y VEROUY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN NOW TO
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP, AND
THEIR BRUTAL TACTICS.
CORRESPONDENT MARCIA BIGGS
TRAVELED TO NORTHERN IRAQ FOR
THE NEWSHOUR TO REPORT ON A
GROUP OF GIRLS WHO MANAGED TO
ESCAPE FROM THE TERRORIST GROUP.
BUT BECAUSE OF THEIR
PSYCHOLOGICAL TRAUMA AND SHAME,
THEY ARE STILL FAR FROM FREE.
A WARNING, HER REPORT CONTAINS
GRAPHIC IMAGES AND SUBJECT
MATTER.
>> Reporter: REFUGEE CAMPS DOT
THE COUNTRYSIDE IN THE KURDISH
REGION OF IRAQ, WHERE ALMOST TWO
MILLION PEOPLE HAVE BEEN FORCED
FROM THEIR HOMES.
29,000 PEOPLE ARE LIVING IN THIS
CAMP ALONE.
MOST OF THEM ARE YAZIDI AND
ALMOST ALL OF THEM ARE MISSING
FAMILY MEMBERS.
THE YAZIDIS ARE A SMALL
COMMUNITY OF LESS THAN A MILLION
PEOPLE, FOUND PRIMARILY IN
NORTHERN IRAQ.
A PRIVATE AND CONSERVATIVE
COMMUNITY, THEY PRACTICE AN
ANCIENT RELIGION, WHICH DRAWS ON
ISLAM, JUDAISM, CHRISTIANITY,
AND THE PERSIAN RELIGION OF
ZOROASTRIANISM.
LAST AUGUST, MEMBERS OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP ATTACKED THE
YAZIDIS, WHOM THEY CONSIDER
HERETICS.
THESE PICTURES OF YAZIDIS
TRAPPED ON SINJAR MOUNTAIN
STUNNED THE WORLD.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS FLED FOR
THEIR LIVES AFTER ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS EXECUTED MANY OF THE
MEN AND TOOK THOUSANDS OF WOMEN
AND GIRLS AS SLAVES.
THIS 13-YEAR-OLD GIRL WAS TAKEN
AND LATER ESCAPED.
>> ( translated ): THEY BROUGHT
EVERYONE TO A SCHOOL AND PUT THE
WOMEN UPSTAIRS AND DROVE THE MEN
AWAY.
I DIDN'T WANT TO LET MY MOTHER
GO BUT THEY WERE PULLING US FROM
OUR MOTHERS AND BEATING US.
THE CHILDREN WERE ALL PUT IN
CARS.
THEY SAID WE'RE GOING TO SELL
YOU TO OTHERS AND YOU WILL HAVE
SEX WITH THEM.
THE LAST TIME I SAW MY MOTHER
WAS WHEN THEY TOOK ME AWAY.
>> Reporter: THIS ISLAMIC STATE
VIDEO, WHICH WENT VIRAL LAST
FALL, APPEARS TO SHOW AN ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTER BRAGGING ABOUT THE
SELLING OF GIRLS.
IN THE MONTHS THAT FOLLOWED, A
NETWORK OF ACTIVISTS SPRUNG UP
THROUGHOUTORTH NERN IRAQ-- AN
UNDERGROUND RAILROAD OF SORTS--
COORDINATING RESCUE EFFORTS.
THEIR PHONE NUMBERS QUICKLY
SPREAD AMONG CAPTIVE GIRLS WHO
USED SMUGGLED PHONES TO CALL FOR
HELP AND GIVE THEIR LOCATION.
AT TIMES, THE KURDISH REGIONAL
GOVERNMENT HAS STEPPED IN TO
GREASE THE WHEELS.
DR. NOORI OTHMAN TOLD US ABOUT
TWO GIRLS WHO ESCAPED THEIR
CAPTORS IN RAQQUA, AND RAN TO A
NEARBY HOUSE, BUT WERE TURNED
AWAY BY THE OWNER, TOO SCARED TO
TAKE THE CHANCE.
>> I CALLED THE PERSON.
SAID LISTEN TO ME, PLEASE KEEP
THESE TWO GIRLS AT YOUR HOME FOR
A COUPLE OF DAYS.
HE SAID NO I CAN'T.
I SAID, I'M GOING TO PAY YOU.
NOBODY IS GOING TO MAKE AN
ADVENTURE FOR HIS LIFE WITHOUT
DOING SOMETHING FOR THEM, YOU
HAVE TO PAY THEM.
>> Reporter: SOME FAMILIES ARE
RAISING MONEY TO BUY BACK THEIR
GIRLS, RACKING UP THOUSANDS OF
DOLLARS IN DEBT.
IS THE GOVERNMENT FUNDING A
PROGRAM TO BUY BACK THE GIRLS?
>> I'M NOT BUYING THEM, MAYBE
I'M PAYING SOME PEOPLE, THEY ARE
HELPING ME, GETTING THEM BACK.
>> Reporter: SO THEY'RE GOING
INTO ISIS CONTROLLED AREAS AND
INFILTRATING IT.
>> SURE.
AND I'M SURE SOME OF THEM HAVE
RELATIONS WITH ISIS OR SOME OF
THE RELATIVES THROUGH SOME OF
RELATIVES AND THEY ARE DOING
THAT.
BUT I DON'T CARE.
THE IMPORTANT I WANT THESE
PEOPLE TO BE BACK.
THESE ARE MY RESPONSIBILITY.
>> Reporter: DR. NOORI SAYS THAT
HIS GOVERNMENT HAS SPENT OVER
$1.5 MILLION TO RESCUE THE
GIRLS.
DO YOU FACE ANY ETHICAL DILEMMA
IN THE SENSE THAT THE MONEY THAT
YOU WOULD PAY THESE PEOPLE MIGHT
SOMEHOW GET INTO THE HANDS OF
ISIS FIGHTERS?
>> WELL, I'M NOT PAYING ISIS
FIGHTERS.
THIS IS ONE.
SECOND THING. THESE ARE KURDISH
CITIZENS.
AND I DON'T CARE WHERE THE MONEY
GO PERSONALLY.
I CARE HOW TO RESCUE THE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: AS MANY AS 400
YAZIDI WOMEN AND GIRLS ARE NOW
FREE AND LIVING IN CAMPS LIKE
THIS ONE, BUT THEIR NIGHTMARE IS
NOT OVER.
MOST OF THEM HAVE BEEN RAPED
REPEATEDLY, AND IN A CULTURE
WHERE A WOMAN'S VIRGINITY IS HER
BADGE OF HONOR, NO ONE WANTS TO
TALK ABOUT IT.
BUT WE FOUND ONE BRAVE GIRL WHO
TOLD US HER WHOLE STORY.
JUST 15 YEARS OLD, SHE AND HER
SIBLINGS WERE CAPTURED,
SEPARATED, AND FOR FOUR MONTHS
SHE WAS SHUTTLED BETWEEN TOWNS
AND CITIES HUNDREDS OF MILES
APART, EVEN BEING SENT TO SYRIA.
IN THAT FIRST MONTH, SHE AND A
FRIEND WERE HANDED OVER TO A MAN
SHE CALLS THE SHEIKH.
>> ( translated ): HE TOOK US TO
HIS HOUSE AND FOR THE NIGHT HE
FORCED US TO HAVE SEX WITH HIM.
>> Reporter: HE RAPED YOU?
>> ( translated ): YES.
HE RAPED US TOGETHER, WE WERE
TOGETHER THE THREE OF US FOR THE
NIGHT.
HE TOLD US YOU DON'T HAVE
RELIGION, I'M MARRYING YOU TO
MAKE YOU THE PEOPLE OF GOD.
>> Reporter: WHAT ELSE DID HE
SAY TO YOU?
>> ( translated ): HE SAID WE
ARE MARRIED, YOU ARE MINE, WE
WILL STAY TOGETHER AND HAVE
CHILDREN.
IF YOU TRY TO ESCAPE OR RUN
AWAY, YOU WILL GET HURT AND WE
MIGHT SELL YOU.
>> Reporter: THEY ESCAPED
THROUGH THE HELP OF A LOCAL
MECHANIC, WHO WAS ABLE TO GET
THEM A TAXI.
THEY WERE FOUND OUT AT AN
ISLAMIC STATE CHECKPOINT AND
RETURNED TO THE CITY OF MOSUL,
WHERE SHE WAS BOUGHT AND SOLD
AGAIN TO A MAN WHO SHE SAYS
RAPED HER OVER AND OVER.
>> ( translated ): HE SAID BAD
WORDS, UGLY WORDS.
HE TOLD ME, IF YOU DON'T LET ME
HAVE SEX WITH YOU, I'M GOING TO
SELL YOU AGAIN.
I'LL SEND YOU TO SYRIA WHERE TEN
MEN WILL BE DOING THE SAME.
AND HE BEAT US.
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS SHE
ATTEMPTED SUICIDE TWICE, THE
FIRST BY DRINKING BLEACH, AND
THE SECOND BY STRANGLING HERSELF
WITH HER SCARF.
DURING THOSE DARK DAYS, SHE USED
A RAZOR AND A PEN TO TATTOO
HERSELF WITH THE WORDS "MAMA WA
BABA AHEBKOM," WHICH IS ARABIC
FOR "MOMMY AND DADDY, I LOVE
YOU."
SHE SAYS THAT'S WHAT KEPT HER
GOING.
YOU HADN'T SEEN THEM FOR FOUR
MONTHS AND YOU DIDN'T KNOW WHERE
YOUR SISTERS WERE.
>> ( translated ): NO I HADN'T
HEARD ANYTHING ABOUT MY SISTERS.
>> Reporter: SHE FINALLY MANAGED
TO ESCAPE ONCE MORE, THROUGH A
SMALL KITCHEN WINDOW.
A FAMILY TOOK HER IN UNTIL A
TAXI DRIVER, PAID BY THE LOCAL
GOVERNMENT, DROVE HER NORTH
TOWARDS THE TOWN OF DOHUK.
SHE SAYS SHE WALKED THE FINAL
HOURS, ON A ROAD LITTERED WITH
BOMBS.
>> AND SHE'S STILL MISSING, AND
SHE'S STILL MISSING AS WELL.
>> Reporter: HER FOUR SISTERS
AND BROTHER ARE STILL MISSING.
HER MOTHER CAN BARELY SPEAK AS
WE SWIPE THROUGH THE PICTURES ON
HER PHONE OF HER MISSING
CHILDREN.
IT'S TOO DANGEROUS FOR US TO
SHOW YOU THEIR FACES.
SHE MAY BE BACK WITH HER FAMILY,
BUT LIKE ALL THE GIRLS WE MET,
SHE IS SUFFERING SEVERE TRAUAMA,
WITH VERY FEW RESOURCES.
>> WHEN YOU SLEEP AT NIGHT, DO
YOU HAVE BAD DREAMS, DO YOU HAVE
NIGHTMARES?
>> Reporter: DR. DEREK FARRELL
IS A BRITISH PSYCHOTHERAPIST,
WORKING WITH A FOUNDATION THAT
AIMS TO OPEN A TRAUMA CENTER FOR
YAZIDI GIRLS.
HE TOLD US SOME OF THE HORROR
STORIES HE'S HEARD.
WHAT HAS STRUCK YOU THE MOST?
>> WELL ONE IS THE LEVEL OF
SEXUAL VIOLENCE, WHICH IS
HORRIFIC.
THESE ARE THE MEMBERS OF THE
YAZIDI COMMUNITY, WHERE THEIR
FAITH IS VERY IMPORTANT.
AND IT'S THE FACT THAT, WITHIN
THEIR TRAUMA, THEIR FAITH WAS IN
SOME WAY USED AGAINST THEM IN A
WAY WHICH IS VERY DEHUMANIZING.
A NUMBER OF THEM FELT THAT THEY
WANTED TO KILL THEMSELVES, SOME
OF THE WOMEN WERE GIVEN A GUN BY
THEIR ISIS CAPTOR AND WERE
OFFERED THAT THEY COULD KILL
THEMSELVES, BUT WHEN THEY PUSHED
THE TRIGGER, THE GUN WAS EMPTY.
IT WAS SHEER, YOU KNOW,
HUMILIATION AND RIDICULE THAT
WENT WITH THAT.
THESE ARE GIRLS THAT CAN'T
SLEEP, THEY'RE HAVING BAD
NIGHTMARES, THEY ARE HAVING
FLASHBACKS.
>> Reporter: SO MANY OF THE
GIRLS ARE AFRAID TO ADMIT THAT
THEY WERE RAPED, AFRAID TO ADMIT
THEY'VE LOST THEIR VIRGINITY.
BUT DR. NIZAR ISMET SAYS LESS
THAN HALF THE GIRLS WHO HAVE
RETURNED HAVE COME IN FOR A
MEDICAL EXAM.
IS A VIRGINITY TEST PART OF THIS
INITIAL MEDICAL EXAM?
>> NOT ALL THE CASES.
>> Reporter: SO YOU DON'T HAVE
TO HAVE A VIRGINITY TEST IF YOU
COME FOR THE MEDICAL EVALUATION?
>> NO.
>> Reporter: BUT I JUST WONDER
IF THAT'S MAYBE WHY SOME OF THE
GIRLS ARE STAYING AWAY, BECAUSE
THEY'RE SCARED TO HAVE THAT
TEST.
>> YES, THAT MAY BE ONE OF THE
REASON BUT WE ARE NOT PUSHING
ANYONE FOR THIS EXAMINATION.
>> Reporter: SOME GIRLS HAVE HAD
THEIR HYMENS REPAIRED, A SORT OF
RE-VIRGINIZATION SURGERY
PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR
THOSE THAT WANT IT.
DID YOU HAVE ANY KIND OF
SURGERY?
>> ( translated ): I HAD SURGERY
TO BECOME A VIRGIN.
>> Reporter: DID YOU FEEL LIKE
YOU HAD TO HAVE THAT SURGERY?
>> ( translated ): YES.
>> Reporter: WHY?
>> ( translated ): TO RETURN TO
THAT TIME WHEN I WAS A VIRGIN.
>> THE PRIORITY IS TO PROVIDE
GOOD MEDICAL CARE, BUT SOME OF
THEM ARE HOPELESS BECAUSE THEY
SAY WE LOST OUR VIRGINITY, WE
CANNOT MARRY AGAIN FOR EXAMPLE,
WE CANNOT MAKE A FAMILY, AND WE
DON'T WANT TO DISCLOSE THIS TO
ANY ONE OF OUR FAMILY.
THEY ARE REALLY IN A SITUATION
THAT IS A BARRIER FOR US TO
TREAT HER OR TO OVERCOME HER
TRAUMAS AND DEPRESSION.
>> Reporter: DR. NIZAR WOULD NOT
CONFIRM REPORTS OF UNDERGROUND
ABORTIONS, BUT SAYS THAT HE IS
WORKING WITH THE COURT TO TRY TO
FIND A WAY TO MAKE ABORTION
LEGAL FOR GIRLS RETURNING FROM
CAPTIVITY.
THROUGHOUT THE CAMP, WE NOTICE
THE OLDER WOMEN AND THE LITTLE
GIRLS, BUT VERY FEW YOUNG WOMEN.
THEY PREFER TO STAY INSIDE.
DO YOU THINK THAT SOMEDAY YOU
WILL MARRY AND HAVE A FAMILY?
>> ( translated ): NO.
>> ( translated ): BECAUSE OF
WHAT HAPPENED TO ME, I CAN'T.
I DON'T WANT TO MARRY AGAIN, I
CAN HAVE A FAMILY, BUT I DON'T
WANT TO.
>> Reporter: WE ASK HER IF THERE
IS ANYTHING THAT MAKES HER HAPPY
NOW.
THE THOUGHT OF MEETING MY
BROTHER AND SISTERS AGAIN IS THE
ONLY THING SHE SAYS.
FOR THE LITTLE ONES IN THE CAMP
THERE ARE SMILES AND LAUGHTER.
THEY WERE SPED TARHE PAIN OF
THEIR OLDER SISTERS' CAPTIVITY.
BUT THEY EMBARK UPON A LIFE IN A
CULTURE AND A COMMUNITY, WHICH
HAS BEEN DECIMATED BY DEATH AND
TRAUMA.
MARCIA BIGGS, FOR PBS NEWSHOUR,
NEAR DOHUK, NORTHERN IRAQ.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
HITTING THE HIGH NOTES THROUGH
THE UPS AND DOWNS OF LIFE.
JEFFREY BROWN SITS DOWN WITH AN
OPERA STANDOUT.
>> Brown: DEBORAH VOIGT HAS MADE
HEADLINES FOR HER STAR
PERFORMANCES ON THE WORLD'S
GREATEST OPERA STAGES.
>> WHEN EVERYTHING'S WORKING YOU
DON'T FEEL IT AT ALL, IT JUST
HAPPENS, YOU'RE VERY MUCH IN THE
MOMENT, THE VOICE IS WORKING,
THE ACTING IS WORKING, YOU'RE
PLAYING WITH A CHARACTER AND
YOU'RE NOT THINKING ABOUT
ANYTHING ELSE.
>> Brown: SHE'S ALSO MADE
HEADLINES FOR SOMETHING ELSE:
HER SIZE-- MOST FAMOUSLY IN 2004
WHEN SHE WAS DROPPED FROM A
LONDON PRODUCTION BECAUSE SHE
COULDN'T FIT INTO WHAT BECAME
KNOWN AS HER LITTLE BLACK DRESS.
>> WHEN I WALKED OUT ON STAGE AT
THAT TIME I WAS, AS I SAY IN MY
BOOK, A POSTER CHILD FOR
OBESITY, IT WASN'T JUST, "OH,
SHE'S A BIG GIRL."
I WAS A BIG GIRL, AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT I REALIZE NOW
THEY DECIDED THEY DIDN'T WANT IN
THEIR PRODUCTION.
>> Brown: VOIGT'S NEW BOOK,
TITLED "CALL ME DEBBIE: TRUE
CONFESSIONS OF A DOWN-TO-EARTH
DIVA," TAKES READERS THROUGH HER
UPS AND DOWNS.
GROWING UP IN ILLINOIS, SHE WAS
A CHILD WHO LOVED TO ACT OUT AND
DRESS UP.
A CHALLENGE FOR HER STRICT
SOUTHERN BAPTIST PARENTS.
>> THEY WERE AS YOU MENTIONED
VERY CONSERVATIVE IN THEIR
BELIEFS, IN THEIR RELIGIOUS
BELIEFS, AND THEY WANTED ME TO
USE MY VOICE TO THE GLORY OF
GOD, AND NOTO BT E PERHAPS A
TROLLOP DANCING ACROSS THE
STAGE, IS PROBABLY WHAT THEY
THOUGHT AT THE TIME.
>> Brown: BUT YOU GREW UP
SOMEHOW TO BECOME, TO PLAY
MYTHICAL GODDESSES, LARGER THAN
LIFE FIGURES, TO PUT YOURSELF ON
THE STAGE BEFORE AUDIENCES
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> IT'S TRUE, IT'S TRUE.
THERE WAS A TRANSITION TIME,
THOUGH, WHEN I WAS JUST
BEGINNING TO GET LEAD ROLES, AND
WHEN I KNEW MY PARENTS WERE IN
THE AUDIENCE I ALWAYS HAD TO
STOP AND THINK, "OKAY, NOW DON'T
PAY ATTENTION TO THE FACT THAT
YOUR PARENTS ARE OUT THERE, IT'S
OKAY TO MAKE OUT WITH THIS
TENOR, YOU'RE EXPECTED TO, IT'S
ALRIGHT."
>> Brown: SHE WOULD BECOME ONE
OF THE MOST PROMINENT SINGERS OF
HER GENERATION, HERALDED FOR
PERFORMANCES SUCH AS BRUNHILDE
IN WAGNER'S RING CYCLE AT THE
METROPOLITAN OPERA.
AND "SALOME" IN THE STRAUSS
OPERA OF THAT NAME, HERE AT THE
LYRIC OPERA OF CHICAGO.
SHE TOLD ME THEY WERE TWO OF HER
FAVORITE ROLES.
>> I ALWAYS JUST SAY, "OH, I
JUST FELL INTO OPERA."
WELL, THE TRUTH OF IT IS THAT I
WORKED MY ASS OFF.
IT WAS REALLY TOUGH.
BRUNHILDE, OF COURSE.
I MEAN WE SEE HER IN ALL PHASES
OF HER LIFE.
THE FIRST TIME WE MEET HER SHE'S
A YOUNG TOMBOY AND SHE DISCOVERS
LOVE AND, YOU KNOW, THE JOURNEY
SHE TAKES IS INCREDIBLE.
SALOME, THE TEMPESTUOUS SIXTEEN
YEAR OLD, THAT'S QUITE AN ACTING
STRETCH, BUT A LOT OF FUN
NONETHELESS.
>> Brown: MUCH OF THE BOOK,
THOUGH, DELVES INTO TIMES OF FAR
LESS FUN, RECOUNTING THE
DEPRESSION AND INSECURITY THAT
LED TO ADDICTIONS TO ALCOHOL,
BAD RELATIONSHIPS, AND BINGE
EATING.
>> IT'S A VERY LONELY BUSINESS,
AND YOU GO HOME AT THE END OF
THE NIGHT AND IT CAN BE JUST YOU
IN YOUR HEAD.
AND IF YOU ARE A PERSON THAT HAS
SOME ISSUES WITH DEPRESSION, OR
SELF-ESTEEM, THOSE TAPES GO, AND
IT BECOMES SOMETHING THAT YOU
REALLY FEEL THE NEED TO QUIET,
AND MY FIRST TRICK WAS THROUGH
FOOD.
>> Brown: WHEN DID YOU REALIZE
THAT IT WAS A PROBLEM?
>> WELL, IT STARED ME BACINK
BEFORE I FINALLY DECIDED, I
TRIED EVERYTHING, FOR ONE THING.
I TRIED EVERY DIET.
MY KNEES WERE STARTING TO HURT,
I WAS GETTING WINDED WALKING
ACROSS THE STAGE, AND IT WAS
KEEPING ME FROM THE ABILITY TO
PORTRAY ROLES ON THE STAGE THAT
I WANTED TO PLAY.
I DID TOSCA, WHO IS SUPPOSED TO
BE THIS BEAUTIFUL OPERA SINGER,
WHEN I WEIGHED 300 POUNDS, AND I
WAS ALWAYS UNCOMFORTABLE ABOUT
IT, I ALWAYS FELT A LITTLE, YOU
KNOW, STICKY ABOUT THESE ISSUES.
>> Brown: THE WEIGHT PROBLEM WAS
OVERCOME WITH THE HELP OF
GASTRIC BYPASS-SURGERY.
THE REST, SHE WRITES, THROUGH
SOBRIETY PROGRAMS AND A
RECOMMITMENT TO HER FAITH.
SHE'S STILL SINGING, WHILE ALSO
PERFORMING IN A ONE-WOMAN SHOW
SHE HELPED VELODEP CALLED "VOIGT
LESSONS".
>> IF THERE'S ONE THING I
LEARNED ABOUT MYSELF IN WRITING
THIS BOOK, AND LOOKING BACK, AND
READING IT, IS THAT I HAVE AN
INCREDIBLE SENSE OF RESILIENCE
THAT I DIDN'T REALLY REALIZE I
HAD.
THINGS WOULD HAPPEN IN MY LIFE
AND I WOULD PICK MYSELF UP, AND
DUST MYSELF OFF, AND GO ABOUT
IT, BUT WHEN I READ EVENT AFTER
EVENT IN THE WHOLE PACKAGE, I
THINK, WOW, HOW HAVE YOU MANAGED
TO DO THIS?
HOW HAVE YOU MANAGED?
>> BCH FOR
TALKING TO US.
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
AT A WHITE HOUSE SUMMIT ON
VIOLENT EXTREMISM, PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID ONE WAY TO COMBAT
GLOBAL TERRORISM IS TO EXPAND
HUMAN RIGHTS AND RELIGIOUS
TOLERANCE.
A BLAST OF ARCTIC AIR GRIPPED
THE MIDWEST, NORTHEAST AND SOUTH
BREAKING DOZENS OF RECORD-LOW
TEMPERATURES, WITH MORE COLD ON
ITS HEELS.
THE GREEK GOVERNMENT CAME
FORWARD WITH A REQUEST FOR A
SIX-MONTH EXTENSION OF ITS
RESCUE LOAN BUT GERMAN OFFICIALS
QUICKLY REJECTED IT CALLING THE
OFFER A TROJAN HORSE.
IF THE PARTIES CAN'T REACH AN
AGREEMENT BEFORE THE END OF THE
MONTH, THE GREEK GOVERNMENT
FACES
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, THE COST OF CARING FOR
AN AGING LOVED ONE WITH HEALTH
CARE NEEDS CAN BE OVERWHELMING.
IN OUR SERIES ON LONG-TERM CARE,
WE LOOK TO THE FAMILY CAREGIVER
ALLIANCE FOR ANSWERS ON HOW TO
PAY FOR IT ALL.
FIND A Q&A ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
AND BEFORE THIS SUNDAY'S ACADEMY
AWARDS, TAKE OUR OSCARS QUIZ.
SEE HOW WELL YOU CAN GUESS THE
NOMINATED FILM BASED ON A LINE
FROM A CRITIC'S REVIEW.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, JEFFREY BROWN VISITS
THE PALM TREE REFUGE OF NOTED
POET W.S. MERWIN.
HERE'S A SHORT PREVIEW.
>> YOU DON'T EXPECT THIS, A
WHOLE FOREST OF PALMS.
SOME 3,000 OF THEM OF INCREDIBLE
VARIETY.
BANDS OF MANY SIZES, TWISTS AN
SHAPES OF MANY KINDS EVEN SHARP
THORNS, MORE THAN 400 SPECIES
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD, ON
19 ACRES OF LAND ON THE NORTHERN
COAST OF MAUI.
>> Woodruff: A HAWAIIAN PALM
FARM, THAT'S FRIDAY ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE,
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING,
WITH MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.